# PR #4102: KEP-976:  Support Groups of Pods Where Driver Generates Workers in Pod Integration

**Summary**: KEP-976:  Support Groups of Pods Where Driver Generates Workers in Pod Integration

**Sources**: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/pull/4102

**Last updated**: 2025-11-20T15:20:54Z

---

## Metadata

- **State**: closed
- **Author**: [@everpeace](https://github.com/everpeace)
- **Branch**: `pod-group-sets` → `main`
- **Created**: 2025-01-30T09:58:31Z
- **Updated**: 2025-11-20T15:20:54Z
- **Merged**: —
- **Closed**: 2025-11-20T15:20:53Z
- **Labels**: `kind/feature`, `release-note`, `size/L`, `needs-rebase`, `cncf-cla: yes`
- **Assignees**: _none_
- **Requested reviewers**: [@mbobrovskyi](https://github.com/mbobrovskyi), [@tenzen-y](https://github.com/tenzen-y), [@PBundyra](https://github.com/PBundyra)
- **Changed files**: 7   **+415 / -8**

## Description

<!--  Thanks for sending a pull request!  Here are some tips for you:

1. If this is your first time, please read our contributor guidelines: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/guide/first-contribution.md#your-first-contribution and developer guide https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/development.md#development-guide
2. Please label this pull request according to what type of issue you are addressing, especially if this is a release targeted pull request. For reference on required PR/issue labels, read here:
https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-release/release.md#issuepr-kind-label
3. Ensure you have added or ran the appropriate tests for your PR: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-testing/testing.md
4. If you want *faster* PR reviews, read how: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/guide/pull-requests.md#best-practices-for-faster-reviews
5. If the PR is unfinished, see how to mark it: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/guide/pull-requests.md#marking-unfinished-pull-requests
-->

#### What type of PR is this?
/kind feature

<!--
Add one of the following kinds:
/kind bug
/kind cleanup
/kind documentation
/kind feature

Optionally add one or more of the following kinds if applicable:
/kind api-change
/kind deprecation
/kind failing-test
/kind flake
/kind regression
-->

#### What this PR does / why we need it:

- Add Driver Generated Pods Support in Pod Integration
- KEP
  - https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/tree/main/keps/976-plain-pods#groups-of-pods-where-driver-generates-workers
  - https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/tree/main/keps/976-plain-pods#story-3

#### Which issue(s) this PR fixes:
<!--
*Automatically closes linked issue when PR is merged.
Usage: `Fixes #<issue number>`, or `Fixes (paste link of issue)`.
_If PR is about `failing-tests or flakes`, please post the related issues/tests in a comment and do not use `Fixes`_*
-->
Fixes #1656 

#### Special notes for your reviewer:

- I'm not regular contributor of Kueue. Thus, I'm not so confident my PR is the relevant impelmentation for the KEP. Please feel free to correct me 🙇 
- I will support Kubeflow Spark Operator integration for the next step (`SparkApplication` integration)

#### Does this PR introduce a user-facing change?
<!--
If no, just write "NONE" in the release-note block below.
If yes, a release note is required:
Enter your extended release note in the block below. If the PR requires additional action from users switching to the new release, include the string "action required".
-->
```release-note
KEP-976: Support Groups of Pods Where Driver Generates Workers in Pod Integration
```

## Discussion

### Comment by [@k8s-ci-robot](https://github.com/k8s-ci-robot) — 2025-01-30T09:58:34Z

Skipping CI for Draft Pull Request.
If you want CI signal for your change, please convert it to an actual PR.
You can still manually trigger a test run with `/test all`

### Comment by [@k8s-ci-robot](https://github.com/k8s-ci-robot) — 2025-01-30T09:58:37Z

[APPROVALNOTIFIER] This PR is **NOT APPROVED**

This pull-request has been approved by: *<a href="https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/pull/4102#" title="Author self-approved">everpeace</a>*
**Once this PR has been reviewed and has the lgtm label**, please assign [mimowo](https://github.com/mimowo) for approval. For more information see [the Code Review Process](https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/guide/owners.md#the-code-review-process).

The full list of commands accepted by this bot can be found [here](https://go.k8s.io/bot-commands?repo=kubernetes-sigs%2Fkueue).

<details open>
Needs approval from an approver in each of these files:

- **[OWNERS](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/blob/main/OWNERS)**

Approvers can indicate their approval by writing `/approve` in a comment
Approvers can cancel approval by writing `/approve cancel` in a comment
</details>
<!-- META={"approvers":["mimowo"]} -->

### Comment by [@netlify[bot]](https://github.com/apps/netlify) — 2025-01-30T09:58:54Z

### <span aria-hidden="true">✅</span> Deploy Preview for *kubernetes-sigs-kueue* canceled.


|  Name | Link |
|:-:|------------------------|
|<span aria-hidden="true">🔨</span> Latest commit | 9a07bebda5f2ca86884ab5caa94d69f6046c0d0e |
|<span aria-hidden="true">🔍</span> Latest deploy log | https://app.netlify.com/sites/kubernetes-sigs-kueue/deploys/67f66f0d42cb1500089f2fb9 |

### Comment by [@everpeace](https://github.com/everpeace) — 2025-01-30T10:36:52Z

/test all

### Comment by [@mimowo](https://github.com/mimowo) — 2025-04-10T09:15:27Z

@everpeace thank you for the PR, I see it goes towards the API which was already discussed in the Pod integration KEP, but I would like to still explore a bit more context, and alternatives. First, things might have changed since then, and Kueue also evolved quite a lot (for example we now have the concept of PrebuiltWorkload which seems to fit the needs).

So, let me ask the exploratory questions:
1. what is the entity which would generate the `kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-sets` annotation? Is it already generated on the driver Pod?
2. Do you already see this API being useful in other contexts outside of Spark?
3. Is all the information needed already present at the SparkApplication CRD to generate the workload?
4. Do you see any advantages of using Pod integration as a basis for the Spark support?

So, I'm thinking maybe if this API so tailored for Spark, and unlikely to be useful outside of Spark, then maybe we change the approach and create a proper Spark integration? It would just use the prebuilt-workload feature to create the Workload before the Pods are created. Another benefit is that it would delay creation of Pods until the Spark Workload is admitted. 

Don't refactor the PR yet :) I'm exploring options so that we can have a solution which takes into account aspects such as reusability of the approach, and long-term maintainability. 

EDIT: so, the idea of using Pod integration API is great as it can be re-used for other integrations. However, in this particular case it seems anyway very specific to Spark, so maybe we don't benefit all that much by making it at the Pod level, and it would be better to have a proper Spark integration - I'm not sure yet.

### Comment by [@mimowo](https://github.com/mimowo) — 2025-04-10T09:19:21Z

cc @mwielgus in case you have some thoughts on the preferred approach for supporting Spark

### Comment by [@k8s-ci-robot](https://github.com/k8s-ci-robot) — 2025-04-12T02:27:20Z

PR needs rebase.

<details>

Instructions for interacting with me using PR comments are available [here](https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/guide/pull-requests.md).  If you have questions or suggestions related to my behavior, please file an issue against the [kubernetes-sigs/prow](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/prow/issues/new?title=Prow%20issue:) repository.
</details>

### Comment by [@everpeace](https://github.com/everpeace) — 2025-04-14T04:18:41Z

@mimowo Thank you very much for your comments!

Firstly, let me confirm that Spark jobs can be handled in Kueue in per-pod basis with pod integration and `pod-suspending-parent` annotation for executor pods like this:

<details>
<summary> Pod integration in SparkApplication CR</summary>

`SparkApplication` CR:
```yaml
apiVersion: sparkoperator.k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: SparkApplication
metadata:
  name: spark-pi
  namespace: default
spec:
  type: Scala
  mode: cluster
  image: spark:3.5.4
  imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  mainClass: org.apache.spark.examples.SparkPi
  mainApplicationFile: local:///opt/spark/examples/jars/spark-examples.jar
  arguments:
  - "50000"
  dynamicAllocation:
    enabled: true
     maxExecutors: 4
  sparkVersion: 3.5.4
  driver:
    labels:
      kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: queue-1
    coreRequest: "1"
    coreLimit: "1"
    memory: "1024m"
    memoryOverhead: "0"
    serviceAccount: "spark"
  executor:
    labels:
      kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: queue-1
    annotations:
        # We need this for executor pod
        # this perhaps will be replaced with "kueue.x-k8s.io/standalone" ??
        kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-suspending-parent: pod
    coreRequest: "1"
    coreLimit: "1"
    memory: "1024m"
    memoryOverhead: "0"
    serviceAccount: "spark"
    deleteOnTermination: false
```

Workloads:
```
NAME                                                                 QUEUE     RESERVED IN   ADMITTED   FINISHED   AGE
workload.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-spark-pi-b9fd0394edf3ae8f-exec-1-70be1   queue-1   queue-1       True                  10s
workload.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-spark-pi-b9fd0394edf3ae8f-exec-2-f533e   queue-1   queue-1       True                  4s
workload.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-spark-pi-b9fd0394edf3ae8f-exec-3-d2e5b   queue-1   queue-1       True                  3s
workload.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-spark-pi-b9fd0394edf3ae8f-exec-4-16d5d   queue-1   queue-1       True                  3s
workload.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-spark-pi-driver-79762                    queue-1   queue-1       True                  16s
```
</details>

---

Thus, all the discussions here aim to handle one Spark job(driver and executors spawned by the driver) as one `Workload`.

> First, things might have changed since then, and Kueue also evolved quite a lot (for example we now have the concept of PrebuiltWorkload which seems to fit the needs).

Cool. I'm new to the `PrebuiltWorlkload` concept. It sounds like it is similar to `kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-sets` annotation in the sense of letting kueue be aware of workloads that will be created in the future. Could you kindly give me a pointer for this? I'd like to learn it more. 

> what is the entity which would generate the kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-sets annotation? Is it already generated on the driver Pod?

I think `SparkApplication` integration webhook will inject this annotation implicitly (like statefulset integration). Or, users should explicitly put this when invoking `spark-submit` directly (see bleow).

> Do you already see this API being useful in other contexts outside of Spark?

Unfortunately, I actually don't know other cases except for Spark. 

> Is all the information needed already present at the SparkApplication CRD to generate the workload?

I think so, basically. However, I also know there is a corner case. Spark workload (driver/executor) can be configured via [bunch of java properties](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html#viewing-spark-properties) at the bottom. And `spark-submit` command, this is an official CLI tool to run spark jobs and also used in spark operator implementation, reads [the default config file($SPARK_HOME/conf/spark-defaults. conf)](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html#viewing-spark-properties:~:text=bin/spark%2Dsubmit%20will%20also%20read%20configuration%20options%20from%20conf/spark%2Ddefaults.conf). Thus, even though `SparkApplication` manifest declares the spec of driver/executor pods, users can inject _implicit_ config values that is NOT declared in the manifest via the default config (that can be mounted from volume/container image, etc.)... I think this is problematic to calculate `Workload`... But, I'd like to believe this is not so common...

> Do you see any advantages of using Pod integration as a basis for the Spark support?

hmmm... I think Kueue community should collect more user voices. I understand there are several popular ways to spawn Spark jobs:

- `spark-submit` command: Users often invoke this command directly inside/outside of kubernetes cluster. In this case, there are two modes (`cluster`/`client` mode)
  - `cluster` mode: `spark-submit` command spawns a driver pod, and then the driver pod will spawn executor pods.
  - `client` mode: this mode is for an interactive use case, `spark-submit` command behaves as a driver and directly spawns executor pods. I think this case is popular in the Jupyter notebook running inside of kubernetes cluster.
- `SparkAppplication` CR: In this case, because spark-operator does support `cluster` mode only. So, the operator spawns a driver pod from the CR (via `spark-submit` command internally) and then the driver pod spawns executor pods

Thus, 

- If we are ok to support only `SparkApplication` integration, we might utilize `PrebuiltWorkloads` in the integration controller or `kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-sets` annotation as already designed
- If Kueue also supported `spark-submit` command case, we would need pod integration


> EDIT: so, the idea of using Pod integration API is great as it can be re-used for other integrations. However, in this particular case it seems anyway very specific to Spark, so maybe we don't benefit all that much by making it at the Pod level, and it would be better to have a proper Spark integration - I'm not sure yet.

Yeah, I agree. And, I'm not also sure the pod integration would be helpful other than spark as I wrote, either.

### Comment by [@mimowo](https://github.com/mimowo) — 2025-04-16T07:03:18Z

> Cool. I'm new to the PrebuiltWorlkload concept. It sounds like it is similar to kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-sets annotation in the sense of letting kueue be aware of workloads that will be created in the future. Could you kindly give me a pointer for this? I'd like to learn it more.

Sure, these are regular Workload CRDs, but they can exist without the "Job" owning them. We use them for LWS which is Pod-based integration [here](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/blob/d68df3a996c1ef1f6dc4abeb156cc0f934141def/pkg/controller/jobs/leaderworkerset/leaderworkerset_reconciler.go#L120), where we create the PrebuiltWorkload, before the Pods are actually created. This is a very similar case to yours, where you could use it instead of "fast admission". However, PrebuiltWorkload seems like more of a fit for the PodBased approach, rather than the Spark CRD based apprach.

> I think SparkApplication integration webhook will inject this annotation implicitly (like statefulset integration). Or, users should explicitly put this when invoking spark-submit directly (see bleow).

Makes sense, but if we are going to have the Spark integration anyway, then it could create the workload directly by inspecting the SparkApplication object.

> I think Kueue community should collect more user voices.

I think the complication is that the community members for now have limited knowledge of Spark, so answering the questions helps us a lot to make decisions. Thank you!


> If we are ok to support only SparkApplication integration, we might utilize PrebuiltWorkloads in the integration controller or kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-sets annotation as already designed
> If Kueue also supported spark-submit command case, we would need pod integration

Let me understand that, so if using `spark-submit `, is the `SparkApplication` created, or bypassed? In case of `spark-submit` and Pod integration, what would set `kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-set` on the driver Pod?

### Comment by [@everpeace](https://github.com/everpeace) — 2025-04-22T01:59:23Z

> Sure, these are regular Workload CRDs, but they can exist without the "Job" owning them. We use them for LWS which is Pod-based integration [here](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/blob/d68df3a996c1ef1f6dc4abeb156cc0f934141def/pkg/controller/jobs/leaderworkerset/leaderworkerset_reconciler.go#L120), where we create the PrebuiltWorkload, before the Pods are actually created. This is a very similar case to yours, where you could use it instead of "fast admission". However, PrebuiltWorkload seems like more of a fit for the PodBased approach, rather than the Spark CRD based apprach.

Thanks. I roughly read through `PrebuiltWorkload` in LWS integration controller. I think this approach could fit with `SparkApplication` CRD integration.

> Let me understand that, so if using `spark-submit`, is the `SparkApplication` created, or bypassed?

Bypassed. `spark-submit` directly creates a driver pod. And, actually, spark-operator depends on `spark-submit` cli [_inside_ the controller](https://github.com/kubeflow/spark-operator/blob/master/internal/controller/sparkapplication/controller.go#L755-L761) to create a driver Pod from a `SparkApplication` CR.

> In case of `spark-submit` and Pod integration, what would set `kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-set` on the driver Pod?

Yeah, it's problematic.... End users will have to put this annotation by themselves, although I know it's hard for them to calculate correct workload shapes and put this into the annotation.... like this:

``` 
# End users invoke this command 
# somewhere inside/outside of the kubernetes cluster
./bin/spark-submit \
    --master k8s://https://127.0.0.1:58900 \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --name spark-pi \
    --class org.apache.spark.examples.SparkPi \
...
    # User will have to put these annotation MANUALLY BY THEMSELVES
    --conf spark.kubernetes.driver.label.kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name=queue-1 \
    --conf spark.kubernetes.driver.label.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-name=spark-pi \
    --conf spark.kubernetes.driver.annotation.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-total-count=3 \
    --conf spark.kubernetes.driver.annotation.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-sets='[{"count":1,"name":"driver"},{"count":2,"name":"worker","template":..omit..}]' \
    --conf spark.kubernetes.driver.label.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-role=driver \
...
```

> - If we are ok to support only SparkApplication integration, we might utilize PrebuiltWorkloads in the integration controller or kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-group-sets annotation as already designed
> - If Kueue also supported spark-submit command case, we would need pod integration

So, I feel `SparkApplication` integration only case would be ok for now because `spark-submit` case can still be supported with _workload per pod_ basis like this:

<details>
<summary> workload per pod support in spark-submit case</summary>

```console
bin/spark-submit \
    --master k8s://https://127.0.0.1:58900 \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --name spark-pi \
    --class org.apache.spark.examples.SparkPi \
    --conf spark.kubernetes.container.image=spark:3.5.4 \
    --conf spark.kubernetes.authenticate.driver.serviceAccountName=spark \
...
    # Kueue related configuration
    --conf spark.kubernetes.driver.label.kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name=queue-1 \
    --conf spark.kubernetes.executor.label.kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name=queue-1 \
    --conf spark.kubernetes.executor.annotation.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-suspending-parent=pod \
...
    local:///opt/spark/examples/jars/spark-examples.jar 5000
```

Workloads:
```console
NAME                                                                                         QUEUE     RESERVED IN   ADMITTED   FINISHED   AGE
workload.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-spark-pi-c255e194ba8b423c-exec-1-b3274                           queue-1   queue-1       True                  5s
workload.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-spark-pi-c255e194ba8b423c-exec-2-d1888                           queue-1   queue-1       True                  5s
workload.kueue.x-k8s.io/pod-spark-pi-7817f094ba8b2fcc-driver-91838                           queue-1   queue-1       True                  10s
```
</details>


WDYT?? If this sounds ok, I'd like to work on PoC with PrebuiltWorkload approach.

### Comment by [@mimowo](https://github.com/mimowo) — 2025-04-23T14:25:32Z

> WDYT?? If this sounds ok, I'd like to work on PoC with PrebuiltWorkload approach.

sgtm, and we can go first with SparkApplication support imo. cc @tenzen-y @mwielgus @mwysokin

### Comment by [@k8s-triage-robot](https://github.com/k8s-triage-robot) — 2025-08-25T14:32:02Z

The Kubernetes project currently lacks enough contributors to adequately respond to all PRs.

This bot triages PRs according to the following rules:
- After 90d of inactivity, `lifecycle/stale` is applied
- After 30d of inactivity since `lifecycle/stale` was applied, `lifecycle/rotten` is applied
- After 30d of inactivity since `lifecycle/rotten` was applied, the PR is closed

You can:
- Mark this PR as fresh with `/remove-lifecycle stale`
- Close this PR with `/close`
- Offer to help out with [Issue Triage][1]

Please send feedback to sig-contributor-experience at [kubernetes/community](https://github.com/kubernetes/community).

/lifecycle stale

[1]: https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/issue-triage/

### Comment by [@k8s-ci-robot](https://github.com/k8s-ci-robot) — 2025-08-29T07:49:02Z

@everpeace: The following tests **failed**, say `/retest` to rerun all failed tests or `/retest-required` to rerun all mandatory failed tests:

Test name | Commit | Details | Required | Rerun command
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
pull-kueue-test-integration-baseline-main | 9a07bebda5f2ca86884ab5caa94d69f6046c0d0e | [link](https://prow.k8s.io/view/gs/kubernetes-ci-logs/pr-logs/pull/kubernetes-sigs_kueue/4102/pull-kueue-test-integration-baseline-main/1915413716183027712) | true | `/test pull-kueue-test-integration-baseline-main`
pull-kueue-test-integration-extended-main | 9a07bebda5f2ca86884ab5caa94d69f6046c0d0e | [link](https://prow.k8s.io/view/gs/kubernetes-ci-logs/pr-logs/pull/kubernetes-sigs_kueue/4102/pull-kueue-test-integration-extended-main/1915425623803695104) | true | `/test pull-kueue-test-integration-extended-main`
pull-kueue-test-e2e-main-1-33 | 9a07bebda5f2ca86884ab5caa94d69f6046c0d0e | [link](https://prow.k8s.io/view/gs/kubernetes-ci-logs/pr-logs/pull/kubernetes-sigs_kueue/4102/pull-kueue-test-e2e-main-1-33/1927360352132009984) | true | `/test pull-kueue-test-e2e-main-1-33`
pull-kueue-test-e2e-main-1-34 | 9a07bebda5f2ca86884ab5caa94d69f6046c0d0e | [link](https://prow.k8s.io/view/gs/kubernetes-ci-logs/pr-logs/pull/kubernetes-sigs_kueue/4102/pull-kueue-test-e2e-main-1-34/1961335190546550784) | true | `/test pull-kueue-test-e2e-main-1-34`

[Full PR test history](https://prow.k8s.io/pr-history?org=kubernetes-sigs&repo=kueue&pr=4102). [Your PR dashboard](https://prow.k8s.io/pr?query=is%3Apr%20state%3Aopen%20author%3Aeverpeace). Please help us cut down on flakes by [linking to](https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-testing/flaky-tests.md#filing-issues-for-flaky-tests) an [open issue](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/issues?q=is:issue+is:open) when you hit one in your PR.

<details>

Instructions for interacting with me using PR comments are available [here](https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/guide/pull-requests.md).  If you have questions or suggestions related to my behavior, please file an issue against the [kubernetes-sigs/prow](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/prow/issues/new?title=Prow%20issue:) repository. I understand the commands that are listed [here](https://go.k8s.io/bot-commands).
</details>
<!-- test report -->

### Comment by [@everpeace](https://github.com/everpeace) — 2025-08-29T07:52:00Z

/remove-lifecycle stale

### Comment by [@everpeace](https://github.com/everpeace) — 2025-11-20T15:20:53Z

I'm closing this in favor of #7268

## Reviews

### Review by [@everpeace](https://github.com/everpeace) (commented) — 2025-02-26T13:07:56Z

Hi, altghouth docs are not paved yet for this feature, I'd like to get a review for the implementation before I proceed to write user docs.

Thanks, in advance.

### Review by [@mimowo](https://github.com/mimowo) (commented) — 2025-04-10T09:15:11Z

- **pkg/controller/jobs/pod/pod_controller.go:685** by [@mimowo](https://github.com/mimowo) — 2025-04-10T09:15:11Z
```diff
@@ -625,12 +670,21 @@ func (p *Pod) Load(ctx context.Context, c client.Client, key *types.NamespacedNa
 }
 
 func (p *Pod) constructGroupPodSets() ([]kueue.PodSet, error) {
-	if _, useFastAdmission := p.pod.GetAnnotations()[podconstants.GroupFastAdmissionAnnotationKey]; useFastAdmission {
+	_, useFastAdmission := p.pod.GetAnnotations()[podconstants.GroupFastAdmissionAnnotationKey]
+	_, usePodGroupSets := p.pod.GetAnnotations()[podconstants.PodGroupSetsAnnotationKey]
+	if useFastAdmission || usePodGroupSets {
 		tc, err := p.groupTotalCount()
 		if err != nil {
 			return nil, err
 		}
-		return constructGroupPodSetsFast(p.list.Items, tc)
+
+		if usePodGroupSets {
+			return constructGroupPodSetsFromPodGroupSets(p, tc)
+		}
+
+		if useFastAdmission {
```

  Instead of fast admission it might be better to actually use PrebuiltWorklaod feature as we do for LWS. This is a very similar use-case, where we have workload for one leader and multiple workloads, which may or may not use the same template. PTAL.

### Review by [@mimowo](https://github.com/mimowo) (commented) — 2025-04-10T09:16:45Z

We will also need e2e tests for the feature, but we can defer until we choose the API to use.
